Information security, sometimes shortened to InfoSec, is the practice of preventing unauthorized access, use, 
disclosure, disruption, modification, inspection, recording or destruction of information. 
It is a general term that can be used regardless of the form the data may take. 
The chief area of concern for the field of information security is the balanced protection of the Confidentiality, 
Integrity and Availability of data, also known as the CIA Triad, while maintaining a focus on efficient policy 
implementation and no major hampering of organization productivity.Information security threats come in many different forms. 
Some of the most common threats today are software attacks, theft of intellectual property, identity theft, 
theft of equipment or information, sabotage, and information extortion. Most people have experienced 
software attacks of some sort.Governments, military, corporations, financial institutions, hospitals 
and private businesses amass a great deal of confidential information about their employees, customers, 
products, research and financial status. Most of this information is now collected, processed and stored 
on electronic computers and transmitted across networks to other computers.
Since the early days of communication, diplomats and military commanders understood that 
it was necessary to provide some mechanism to protect the confidentiality of correspondence 
and to have some means of detecting tampering. Julius Caesar is credited with the invention of the 
Caesar cipher c. 50 B.C., which was created in order to prevent his secret messages 
from being read should a message fall into the wrong hands, but for the most part protection 
was achieved through the application of procedural handling controls. Sensitive information was marked up 
to indicate that it should be protected and transported by trusted persons, guarded and stored in a 
secure environment or strong box. As postal services expanded, governments created 
fficial organizations to intercept, decipher, read and reseal letters.
