Information security, sometimes shortened to InfoSec, is the practice of preventing unauthorized access, use, 
disclosure, disruption, modification, inspection, recording or destruction of information. 
It is a general term that can be used regardless of the form the data may take. 
The chief area of concern for the field of information security is the balanced protection of the Confidentiality, 
Integrity and Availability of data, also known as the CIA Triad, while maintaining a focus on efficient policy 
implementation and no major hampering of organization productivity.Information security threats come in many different forms. 
Some of the most common threats today are software attacks, theft of intellectual property, identity theft, 
theft of equipment or information, sabotage, and information extortion. Most people have experienced 
software attacks of some sort.Governments, military, corporations, financial institutions, hospitals 
and private businesses amass a great deal of confidential information about their employees, customers, 
products, research and financial status. Most of this information is now collected, processed and stored 
on electronic computers and transmitted across networks to other computers.

Любая утечка информации может привести к серьезным проблемам для компании — 
от значительных финансовых убытков до полной ликвидации. 
Конечно, проблема утечек появилась не сегодня, промышленный шпионаж и 
переманивание квалифицированных специалистов существовали еще и до эпохи компьютеризации. 
Но именно с появлением ПК и интернета возникли новые приемы незаконного получения информации. 
Если раньше для этого необходимо было украсть и вынести из фирмы целые кипы бумажных документов, 
то сейчас огромные объемы важных сведений можно запросто слить на флэшку, помещающуюся в портмоне, 
отправить по сети, прибегнув к использованию семейства руткитов, троянов, бэкдоров, кейлоггеров и ботнетов, 
либо просто уничтожить посредством вирусов, устроив диверсию.

Информационная безопасность — защищённость информации и поддерживающей инфраструктуры 
от случайных или преднамеренных воздействий естественного или искусственного характера, 
которые могут нанести неприемлемый ущерб субъектам информационных отношений.
from being read should a message fall into the wrong hands, but for the most part protection 
was achieved through the application of procedural handling controls. Sensitive information was marked up 
to indicate that it should be protected and transported by trusted persons, guarded and stored in a 
secure environment or strong box. As postal services expanded, governments created 
official organizations to intercept, decipher, read and reseal letters.

In the mid-19th century more complex classification systems were 
developed to allow governments to manage their information according to the degree of sensitivity. 
The British Government codified this, to some extent, with the publication of the Official Secrets Act in 1889. 
By the time of the First World War, multi-tier classification systems were used to communicate information 
to and from various fronts, which encouraged greater use of code making and breaking sections 
in diplomatic and military headquarters. In the United Kingdom this led to the creation of the 
Government Code and Cypher School in 1919. Encoding became more sophisticated between

дной из самых опасных на сегодняшний день угроз информационной безопасности являются компьютерные вирусы. 
Это подтверждается многомиллионным ущербом, который несут компании в результате вирусных атак. 
В последние годы существенно увеличилась их частота и уровень ущерба. 
По мнению экспертов, это можно объяснить появлением новых каналов проникновения вирусов. 
На первом месте по-прежнему остается почта, но, как показывает практика, вирусы способны 
проникать и через программы обмена сообщениями, такие как ICQ и другие. 
Увеличилось и количество объектов для возможных вирусных атак. 
Если раньше атакам подвергались в основном серверы стандартных веб-служб, то 
сегодня вирусы способны воздействовать и на межсетевые экраны, коммутаторы, мобильные устройства, маршрутизаторы.

Selecting proper controls and implementing those will initially help an organization to bring down risk to acceptable levels. 
Control selection should follow and should be based on the risk assessment. 
Controls can vary in nature but fundamentally they are ways of protecting the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information. 
ISO/IEC 27001 has defined controls in different areas. Organizations can implement additional controls according to requirement of the organization. 
ISO/IEC 27002 is a guideline for organizational information security standards.

Information security must protect information throughout the life span of the information, 
from the initial creation of the information on through to the final disposal of the information. 
The information must be protected while in motion and while at rest. During its lifetime, 
information may pass through many different information processing systems and through many 
different parts of information processing systems. 
The building up, layering on and overlapping of security measures is called defense in depth. 
In contrast to a metal chain, which is famously only as strong as its weakest link, 
the defense-in-depth aims at a structure where, should one defensive measure fail, other measures will continue to provide protection.

Authentication is the act of verifying a claim of identity. 
When John Doe goes into a bank to make a withdrawal, he tells the bank 
teller he is John Doe—a claim of identity. The bank teller asks to see a photo ID, so he hands the teller his driver's license. 
The bank teller checks the license to make sure it has John Doe printed on it and compares the photograph on the 
license against the person claiming to be John Doe. If the photo and name match the person, then the teller 
has authenticated that John Doe is who he claimed to be. Similarly by entering the correct password, 
the user is providing evidence that he/she is the person the username belongs to.

Иногда руководители компаний пытаются сэкономить на покупке лицензионного ПО. 
Но следует знать, что нелицензионные программы не дают защиты от мошенников, 
заинтересованных в краже информации с помощью вирусов. Обладатель нелицензионного 
ПО не получает технической поддержки, своевременных обновлений, предоставляемых компаниями-разработчиками. 
Вместе с ним он покупает и вирусы, способные нанести вред системе компьютерной безопасности.

Change management is a formal process for directing and controlling alterations to the information processing environment. 
This includes alterations to desktop computers, the network, servers and software. 
The objectives of change management are to reduce the risks posed by changes 
to the information processing environment and improve the stability and reliability of the processing environment as changes are made. 
It is not the objective of change management to prevent or hinder necessary changes from being implemented.

